# CS-305-Software-Security

The client for these projects was a financial consulting company called Artemis Financial. They wanted to protect their web-based software application from external threats as a part of an effort to modernize their operations. During Project One, a Vulnerability Assessment Report was created to identify security vulnerabilities in the client’s code base through a manual review and static testing. A Vulnerability Assessment Process Flow Diagram facilitated the manual review and a Maven Dependency Check was used to examine the code base for Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs). In Project Two, a checksum was implemented using the SHA-256 hash algorithm and a digital self-signed certificate was created to protect the client’s data in transit. This project converted the client’s application-layer protocol from HTTP to HTTPS to provide a secure connection between a client and the server. The generated certificate allows for Artemis Financial to authenticate themselves to their patrons. The checksum will maintain data integrity by producing a hash value for a file that can be checked to see if any changes have been made to it after a transfer. Secondary static testing and functional testing were used to ensure that the refactored code did not introduce any new vulnerabilities to the software. 

I did well at applying static and dynamic testing to identify software security vulnerabilities in Artemis Financials’ code. It is important to code securely to protect customer data and prevent lost revenue. Security vulnerabilities can be costly if software is taken offline or governmental regulations are broken. Customer retention can also be severely  impacted from software security issues if data is not stored safely. Incorporating secure coding practices in software development adds to company’s overall wellbeing by preventing external threats from affecting business operations.  

I found interpreting the Vulnerability Assessment Process Flow Diagram to be challenging during the process of working through the vulnerability assessment. The areas of security are vague and it was difficult to determine which were most applicable to the situation. I felt that they could all, in some way, be found relative to both projects. It was helpful to ask questions and confer with fellow peers and our instructor. I used thorough research to approach the need to increase layers of security in the two projects for this course. Using forums, like Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange, and the Maven Dependency Check tool are strategies that I would use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques. Forums provide insight from other people’s experiences with same or similar situations. It was insightful to learn about what others do to resolve issues related to securing web-based software applications. The opensource tool through Maven was easy to use and proved to be valuable at identifying many of the CVEs in projects. 

I ensured that the code and software were functional and secure by using static and dynamic testing. I manually reviewed the code for vulnerabilities, applied a dependency check to look for CVEs, and ran the code to test its behavior. This techniques allowed me to check if introduced new vulnerabilities when I refactored the client’s code to include a checksum. I will continue to use opensource tools in future assignments and tasks because of they are free to use and can automate security reviews. I will also continue to use governmental agencies like the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to reference best practices to code securely. 

I believe there is great value in the ability to communicate security vulnerabilities. Of course, identifying and resolving vulnerabilities are of significant importance too. However, there are usually multiple stakeholders in the professional world that need to be made aware of security issues and being able to effectively communicate these issues to them can help the mitigation process. In addition to my implementation of a self-signed certificate and checksum, I would like to showcase my ability to communicate software security problems and resolutions. I want future employers to know that my work is considerate of others and our collectively ability to overcome challenges together.
